# SEO Week 2026 | Zach Chahalis

- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rqe_4g2cWA8
- **Channel/Expert:** Mike King (iPullRank)
- **Date Fetched:** 2026-07-03

## Transcript

really bad nickname. We did this whole ridiculous YouTube skit thing like 3 years ago where I would put him against Mike and we called it SEO Battle Zone and I decided to call him the Flying Dinosaur for complete irreverence and it like stuck for a long time. And the show actually kind of sucked because him and Mike agreed on everything. So there was like no point counterpoint. It would just be Mike being like, "This is [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] up." And Zach would be like, "I agree." And like nobody watched that. He is a boomerang employee. He actually left and he came back. He's proved that

left and he came back. He's proved that the trauma of iPullRank is survivable. He actually recently got married. So between returning to iPullRank and committing to one person forever, Zach is apparently in his loyalty era. He brings strategy, SEO brainpower, and the dangerous confidence of someone who left, came back, and still knows where all the bodies are buried in the shared Google Drive. Please welcome Zach Challis.

Hello, hello everybody. I am the last thing keeping you from the concert tonight. So, let's go ahead and get some of the energy up a little bit. What I'm going to be talking about is why you need a relevance engineer driving the car. So, Garett kind of leaned into this a little bit already, but just a little bit of context about me cuz I need to define that entity. Um I've been in SEO now for a little over 15 years as well as marketing analytics CRO. Uh been back in iPullRank for about 6 months now, but a little over 2 and 1/2 years in total. I've got an almost 11-year-old golden doodle. He will be actually 11 next week. And as Garett mentioned, I am 2

week. And as Garett mentioned, I am 2 weeks into the married life and I've only lost this wedding ring once this week. So that's I guess that's a good win. Uh I did find it. so that's, you know, good. Um So, I'm going to start with a little bit of a story. So, if it's not obvious from the beginning, I'm going to go into a little bit of a car perspective. And my love for cars started at a very young age. I think I annoyed the hell out of my parents by the time I was four. Because my weird parlor trick is I can name a car coming from looking at his headlights or tail lights without having any other context about it.

any other context about it. And yes, that is me at a very young age sitting in at that time it was my dad's car. And it was a dream come true for me to get my license in the proud state of New York at the age of 16. And to get my first car. And yes, I actually drove a snow plow truck. Great business, by the way, if you want to start something at a young age. Um but I've already owned over 20 different vehicles. And props to Gemini for actually getting all of these pretty much accurate in terms of what they look like. Um but this is just a sample of some of the cars I've driven over the

some of the cars I've driven over the last 20 plus years. But modern cars bore me. And I'm going to apologize to anyone that's driving any of these examples that are on the screen. Um I find that a lot of cars now look the same. That they're they don't have the energy, the excitement, what made them fun for me a couple of years ago. So, I found myself looking for older cars. Something a little bit more with soul, something that had uh something I had to lean into to uh have a little bit more excitement with.

have a little bit more excitement with. And I bought this. Um actually, I own both of those last two cars, but So, I went ahead and bought this. It is a late '90s Mercedes SL500. If you're of the era where you can remember this being in pretty much every rap music video, yes, that is the same car. Um you might be asking at this point, what does this have to do with relevance engineering or AI search in any way whatsoever? This relates back to my boredom with what I'm going to call appliance style cars matched the boredom that I was feeling

matched the boredom that I was feeling in the SEO space before AI search came around. I found myself and I've actually heard many other people talk about this week kind of going, "You know, maybe I'll start doing something else." Until 2022 when ChatGPT came along, things got a little bit more interesting. And I even started looking into becoming a truck driver. So, I mean, kind of went in a whole wide variety of different directions. So, the big thing to know with some of these older cars though is that cars that have a soul require having a driver behind

a soul require having a driver behind them. Someone that can work on them, someone that can understand how they function. And because you don't have all of these technical doohickeys and systems and traction control, you kind of need to know how to drive it effectively. So, I learned how to work on cars. I learned how to modify them. Uh, that might be the most plain-looking station wagon and yes, I drove a station wagon. However, that thing could put an M3 to shame on a on a street race. So, just being able to have fun, understand, work on these things, make them into what I want them to be. Just like I've evolved my skills from

Just like I've evolved my skills from the SEO perspective into relevance engineering, I've developed a very particular set of skills over the last couple of years that have just kind of enhanced what I've learned in my very long career so far. And the fun part of my job, and I know that although I'm staring into a lot of lights right now, there's a good chunk of my I pull rank team in the audience. Thank you. So, the fun part of my job is getting to work with this team and getting to experiment, reverse engineer, test

experiment, reverse engineer, test things, and understand what actually makes things tick in AI search and in classic search. So, with that said, go ahead and jump on into it. Let's establish how measurement has changed. Big props to Bree. I have followed her for many years. She is the expert on all things GA4, so I'm very happy that she led into this in a way that didn't contradict things I was going to say. Um but we also need to look at other angles of how we think about metrics and

how we think about metrics and measurement. The performance metrics are key, but we need to get away from just the traffic component like Bree said. We need to think about the events. We need to think about the conversions, the engagement depth. How are we actually making money at the end of the day? But that backs up into other things that we can think about as tactical folks, how we think about optimizing our websites, how we think about optimizing for agents. So from an input metrics perspective, for example, thinking about the signals that show that your content and your site are aligned with how folks

and your site are aligned with how folks are thinking about or how the bots are thinking about how your site is working and functioning today. So things like passage relevance, the entity salience, the bot activity that's coming in. You also want to measure how visible and cited that you are and represented within the brand. That's the idea of creating relevance. So you do want to still look at these channel metrics, but the idea of just looking at rankings is dead. That is something we need to move on. We need to understand other things like share of voice, citation rate, the quality, the sentiment of your citations. Do these Do these platforms think that you are a bad company, that

think that you are a bad company, that you have issues? I will talked about it deeply yesterday where, you know, does it actually believe that you're talking about the things and that you believe in those things that you're saying? And AI overviews are changing that user behavior. We've seen it. Traffic is dropping off. This chart represents Wikipedia. So the second that we started to see things with like the introduction of ChatGPT, AI overviews started to appear as well, and Wikipedia traffic actually shot up.

and Wikipedia traffic actually shot up. That is what that peak is. It's right after ChatGPT launched. It was a nice upward little trend. Red dotted line represents when AI overviews launched. So even Wikipedia started losing traffic in this sense. But organic search still matters. It remains the primary discovery channel. AI systems still retrieve from search from the rag model perspective and rankings are still table stakes if you want to appear from the AI search perspective as well as classic search. And if we think about the searches per

And if we think about the searches per desktop searcher, this is looking at the last couple of years of data. This is staying pretty flat, right? So, folks are still leveraging these older platforms. I'm going to say older in air quotes. But they are still continuing with some of the traditional methods, but they are working in newer approaches, newer strategies, newer things like ChatGPT and AI search into the mix as well. So, at this point though, best practices are not enough. Everything that's kind of been going on from this perspective and I'm going to

from this perspective and I'm going to lean on a lot on what Garrett and Will talked about yesterday from their talks, the idea of personas and driving the different things that you're going to see as a user. You cannot use that generic playbook anymore. You cannot expect that the same thing that's going to work on one side is going to work on another. You need to create a custom strategy engine. You need to have the context of your industry and what matters for your site. You need to understand the reality that your website lives in and the ecosystem and the channel that you're

ecosystem and the channel that you're functioning in. You need to create that data data and measurement layer and these will all result in different outcomes depending on what your site is and what you're functioning on. You need to be experimenting constantly. The biggest thing to know in the AI search era is everything is constantly changing. Every couple of weeks, there's a new model launching constantly. Everything is being looked at in a different way every couple weeks. And what works now, what works today, the things I'm about to

works today, the things I'm about to talk about, may not work in 3 weeks, may not work in 3 months, may not work in 6 months. If you're not testing and experimenting and staying up with what's going on, you're going to fall behind and you're going to let other people start to pass you. So, let's drill into the metrics. What can we actually measure when we think about relevance engineering? I'm going to take a step back here real quick. So, we did a webinar about 2 months ago. I'm going to give a shout out to Patrick Schofield and Garrett. I

out to Patrick Schofield and Garrett. I believe they're both in the room. Thank you. Um what happened is we decided to look into what are the qualities that search and AI systems are rewarding when it comes down to understanding how we could diagnose and improve content on some of the sites that we work on. And where we think about this we start by identifying what modern search and AI systems are rewarding. So, things like accuracy, depth, structure, answerability. We translate those into measurable NLP

We translate those into measurable NLP and retrieval signals. We designed metrics around these to be diagnostic levers, not content scores. So, these are not things that you should use to score and change your content, but rather how should I optimize and improve it? And we tested those metrics against the performance outcomes that we saw. And then finally, we iterated to keep these metrics and explain performance as it continues to evolve because like I said, things are constantly changing. If you haven't seen that webinar, there's a link at the bottom. I'm sure you guys are all getting these slides later on anyway.

anyway. So, let's drill into a couple of the metrics. These are the things that we've defined at IPR. We've measured, we've dug into. Content keyword cosine similarity. What this is measuring is the idea of topic coherence and focus and the idea that if you're writing and putting out content that does not match what your site is focused on, what other pages are focused on, you're going to get penalized for that. So, you the idea of penalizing semantic drift. We looked at comprehensive coverage index. This general idea balances and

index. This general idea balances and covers the balance of length with informational value and completeness and the general idea that this is a composite of multiple quality signals that we've kind of rolled into a single system. Strategic entity richness score a score. This weighs entity counts by quality factors and penalizes irrelevant padding. So, are you just putting in junk in your content for the sake of putting in junk? There's the idea of the explanatory efficiency index. This measures fact

efficiency index. This measures fact density in your content. It measures narrative overhead. Are you bloating your content? There's the idea of verifiable claims. Are you talking about things that are measures of a document's claim making content? Can it be substantiated against other trusted sources that are out there on the internet? Optimal chunkability score. What this is looking at is how well can a document's existing structure align with the underlying semantic

align with the underlying semantic structure of the page? How can we break this out? How can we make it more efficient? How can we make it more crawlable for both users, and I mean actual humans, and the bots that are looking at the page? And then conceptual depth score. So, this is measuring specificity and hierarchical depth of the concepts that you're discussing on your page and in your content and rewards detailed expert level information that you're including within your content. Information gain score. So, I've actually heard a couple of other folks talk about this throughout the last couple days, but the general idea of

couple days, but the general idea of how much new information are you adding into your content? Are you publishing the same crap that everyone else is putting out there? Why is your content different? Why is it better? What should you be doing? The idea is that it's rewarding unique insights and it's penalizing redundant information. And then entity density. So, the idea of measuring the ratio of the number of entities that you're using to words and ensuring appropriate information density without crowding within the content.

without crowding within the content. So, let's talk about the experiment here. Now, I'll caveat all that we're saying, those are the metrics that we defined in that webinar. We also did a deep dive into how we looked at and defined those things. What we decided to do now is a little bit of an experiment. I everyone's familiar with the idea of AI slop at this point. And again, props to Garrett for including a badge in his deck around all this AI slop. And I have a couple images in mind, too. What we decided to do is we looked at three obviously AI content slop generated websites, and we compared

slop generated websites, and we compared them across the metrics that we've defined. So, we started by finding and crawling these three sites. We intentionally chose some websites from some different industries. I'll caveat that. We crawled a sample set of content from each of the sites. We translated those qualities into measurable NLP and retrieval signals. And then we ran each of those websites against those diagnostic levers that I just defined for you. So, let's take a look at contestant one. Now, when I put these slides together, I felt like I was going to be nice and not name

like I was going to be nice and not name any of the brands that we're talking about. And I I'm still going to try and stick to that. However, I've seen five billboard ads and eight bus ads for this brand since I left my hotel room this morning. So, you can kind of start to figure it out if you start to think about it. But, let's they're a major project management SaaS company. There's only a few out there. Take a guess. It's also been mentioned a couple times in the last few days here at SEO week. Their page one rankings have dropped 90% since their peak, which was the beginning of January of last year.

beginning of January of last year. Contestant two. So, this is a financial informational website. It helps with understanding how to, for example, get a mortgage or get a credit card. What are the best credit cards for you? How do you use calculators to understand your mortgage interest, things like that. And the focus is in this particular case that they're trying to provide the best possible information so you can understand how to do things in the Your Money Your Life category. And their page one rankings have been relatively flat. So, not necessarily seeing the amount AI

So, not necessarily seeing the amount AI perspective that the last site did. The third one is a tech how-to website. So, this is focused on things like um how do I update my Android phone to the latest version of whatever version might be out right now. Um their page one ranking since they start to launch this content has actually increased over the last year, but it started to trend down since January. And we've already had a couple core updates, so I'll let you make your interpretations there. So, how's the AI visibility fared for

So, how's the AI visibility fared for these sites? Well, you know, there's something that sticks out to me here. I want to zoom in for a second. Let's look at that blue line. So, that blue line's the productivity SaaS site. They have fallen off from 8,000 AIO inclusions to around 1,700 in the last year. That site is completely decimated from the AI perspective. So, let's look at total AI citations,

So, let's look at total AI citations, right? So, across every AI platform that we can get data from. And again, you kind of see the same thing. Hey, the the red finance site's doing okay, relatively flat. That the tech how-to sites flat, little bit down. And then you look at the productivity SaaS site. Ew. So, what's going on within that? What did we find? So,

So, this is going to come to no like no one's surprised by this, right? If you're putting off-brand content on your site, it's going to hurt performance. However, this site apparently didn't give a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] So, let's look at some of the sample off-brand keywords. Again, productivity task management software tool. How to make a strike through in Google Docs. Chat GPT alternatives. Office party ideas. I guess that's a little bit productive. Tuesday motivational quotes for work.

Tuesday motivational quotes for work. None of this has to do with task management. Right? So, in this particular perspective, what we're looking at is it's at the end of the day, 83% of the content that we measured on this site had nothing to do with their core offering. It is just junk. And as we looked at the average word count of these articles, we kind of noticed that they were using a lot of words. It seemed like they were trying to make their point with 2,200 words on average.

with 2,200 words on average. Compared to the finance site and the tech how-to site, around 1,200 1,100 words on average for their particular content pieces. At the same time, they have absolutely nothing valuable to say. If we look at the explanatory power per 1,000 words in this perspective, the finance site is at 3.57. Essentially, how instructive is your content per thousand words used? That tech how-to site is less than half

That tech how-to site is less than half of what that finance site is doing. And when we think about the idea of verifiable information, what are they putting out there? It hurts me as I kind of see these numbers. So, the finance site includes 218% more verifiable claims, meaning they're actually talking about things that are real that matter can that can be validated on other sites that are out there. The tech how-to site is 575%

is 575% more. So this site is just putting out junk and I feel like I've given you all enough hints to find this site. But even as you look at some of the content that's out there, they left the chat GPT responses in the copy. You can find it. It's It's very obvious that they're using an AI pipeline that generated it in one model, had another model fact-check it, put it out there, and at the top of the article you'll just see, "Oh, I'm sorry I got that

just see, "Oh, I'm sorry I got that wrong. Let me try again." But at the same time, these metrics are not one-size-fits-all. This is why you need a relevance engineer. This is why you need someone on your side, whether that's in-house in building out the right team to support the need and support how things are changing, or finding the right partner to work with you from that perspective. But I want to take a step back. So let's zoom in on that tech how to site because you might have noticed in that explanatory power per 1,000 words

that explanatory power per 1,000 words that the tech how to site's pretty far down. There's a reason for this. The technical how to site is producing step-by-step instructional guides and instructions, not explanatory articles. So this is compensating with very high entity density on it, but for an example, let's say how to enter recovery mode on a Galaxy S9, right? So in this particular case, they're giving you that step-by-step guide. Like similar to as we were as Ian was talking about

we were as Ian was talking about yesterday, how do I fix a bicycle tire? The productivity SaaS side at the same time is massively, measurably more templatized. If we look at the optimal chunkability score, essentially what this is saying is how easily can we break this content down into interchangeable chunks. You might think that this score is actually good, right? You want to be Maybe you want to be higher here. Your content could be more effectively organized. What this is actually showing though at 62%

62% is that the vast majority of their content is the same template and the same organization and the same format that's coming out on every single one of these pages. So, you are just publishing junk at the end of the day that is just being organized in the same heading structure across all of these different pages. And the finance site and the tech how-to site, they win in different ways because again, it's not one size fits all. If we look at explanatory efficiency, the finance site performs extremely well

the finance site performs extremely well here. They are the most efficient in terms of words per explanatory point at 379. The productivity SaaS site, again, the least efficient at more than double at 829. They are not explaining anything at all. They are just publishing stuff. The tech how-to site on the other hand excels at the idea of entity density because as you think about these different how-to articles, it's talking about a wide variety of different entities that can be included. Things like device names, operating systems,

like device names, operating systems, versions, settings, the things that function and you need to be looking at on a regular basis but that you can tie back to things like the entities that you've defined, the entities that are defined publicly, Wikipedia, Wikidata information. So, they're including these things that more likely relate back to things that already exist. Now, at this point you might be able to saying, "Why did I waste all this time talking about cars in the beginning?" So, your SEO GEO LMENO, pick your

So, your SEO GEO LMENO, pick your alphabet soup of choice. Your strategy is only as good as the relevance engineer that's driving the car. And so, unlike Tesla autopilot, you can't just turn it on, set it and forget it. Also, props for getting this picture into the the marketing team. I appreciate this. Actually me leaving my wedding 2 weeks ago, so thank you. Um So, on the IPR side, again, uh everyone take a drink, I guess. Patrick Scofield, so this is an example of

Scofield, so this is an example of someone that's been driving the car on our side. Where is Patrick? Hey, there we go. All right. So, a little bit of his context. He's helping us move our relevance engineering practice forward and working with our team. He's developing some of these proprietary NLP metrics. So, the things that you saw in the webinar, massively driven by the things that he's working on with the entire team drilling in here. He produced that 75,000 URL case study in the relevance engineering metrics.

in the relevance engineering metrics. He's also a car guy, so that's why we get along pretty well in that area. At the end of the day, new roles are emerging. We are in an era of change within our industry. We need to be thinking about how we create relevance for our websites, for our clients, for the brands that we work with, so that way they're actually seen as experts on the information that they're talking about. And that they're following these metrics that we're designing in a way that makes sense for

designing in a way that makes sense for their particular industry. And the way that teams are structured is also changing or needs to change. If there's anyone in here, and I really I plead to you that if you are like a head of marketing and the idea of not growing your team or shrinking your team has even come into your mind, do not do that. You instead need to be looking at how you expand your team and how these team members need to work with other aspects of your organization. In the omnimedia

of your organization. In the omnimedia content world that we live in now, you need to be working closely with other teams in your organization, whether that's PR, marketing, paid, any other team, you all need to be working together in order to be effective now, to engineer relevance, to engineer why you matter to your customer and to the search engines and to the AI searches that are out there. And the proof is in the case studies in terms of some of these metrics that we've talked about. So, this is a global

we've talked about. So, this is a global financial services leader. We were able to work with them by basically taking those metrics that we just talked about and defined. In your particular use case, we focus on semantic optimization of their content, and we increased their sign-ups by 121%. That's the metric I care about the end of the day. I don't care about traffic. I want people coming into the site where I can sell them what it is that we're trying to do. We're selling them change. So, in this particular case, we were able to identify what of which of those

able to identify what of which of those metrics, of which of those levers we need to be pulling in order to effectively drive the change that we're looking at here. Similarly, in this particular case, you need to understand what is going on with your site in question. Now, Mike did talk about this case study the other day, so this probably will not come to a surprise for anyone who's in the room. But, in this particular case, we focus on creating the right content strategy approach that would help drive forward and improve the relevance of a brand in

and improve the relevance of a brand in an environment that I'm transparently going to say is heavily full of AI slop with some of the other sites that are out there. And in this particular case, the thing that stuck out to me the most is you also need to understand how things have changed in the AI search era. The big call out here is that we saw a direct correlation in the number of 499 increases in status code. So, again, that's not a readily clear status code if you go Google stat HTTP status codes that are out there today.

today. But what it says at the end of the day is "Hey, your site is so damn slow, I left." And there's a direct correlation that we saw in that and the number of AI citations that that site had. The second that issue was fixed, AI citations start climbing again. And actually are the best that they've ever been. So, you need to understand how things are changing. You need to understand the metrics that are going to be important for your site. So, I'm just going to wrap up a little bit and go into some closing arguments. I know I'm holding everybody from the concert tonight.

concert tonight. Whether you want to go or not. Um at the end of the day, the big call out is buyer beware. You need to define your risk tolerance. You need to understand your testing scope. And know that outcomes are not guaranteed. This is where having the right person driving the car can help you figure out what are the levers that you need to be pulling so that way you can figure out how to get the best outcome from what you're working with. And your industry context matters. Like I said, that tech how-to site is

Like I said, that tech how-to site is functioning entirely differently from the finance site. Despite the fact they're taking a similar approach to how they create content, they're creating in a way that's that matters and is different for their particular needs and instances. Measure before you modify. I cannot harp on this enough also as an analytics practitioner. And I don't know if Bree is still in the room. You need to make sure that your measurement is functioning appropriately. Rely on your analytics data and understand how things are changing within your site, within your

changing within your site, within your performance as you make these changes. You need to be very clear around, "Hey, are we actually seeing an impact in the change that we made and what it's doing on the site?" Going back to that three-pillar approach of measurement before, understand what metric it is that you're trying to optimize against, and then figure out what it is that is your baseline here. And then watch for second order effects. So, you need to measure the change cascade that occurs and monitor beyond the citation perspective.

citation perspective. Now, I'm going to circle back to this. Always be experimenting. So, I was trying to get this live for a slightly different approach to this talk, but now I'm trying to build an AI slot website cuz it's fun. Why not? But I'm factoring in the relevance engineering metrics that matter for the site that I'm playing with. And I just didn't have enough time for that site to capture enough data and hopefully not hit Mount AI. But my goal is to see how this site performs over the

to see how this site performs over the next couple of months and then release a study on how that worked factoring in those relevance engineering metrics that matter for the site that I'm targeting at the beginning when I create that content, when I publish it in a way that matters, and ties back to a passion area for me. So, that is it. Thank you. I appreciate all of y'all sticking around, and I hope everybody enjoys the concert this evening.

Awesome. That was awesome. That was awesome. All right, folks. Give it up one more time for Zach Chehalis. I just got to say it's been such a privilege being
