# SEO Week 2026 | Angela Clark

- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N4Mdv5t5upc
- **Channel/Expert:** Mike King (iPullRank)
- **Date Fetched:** 2026-07-03

## Transcript

&gt;&gt; Now you guys know which song I chose. You're welcome. Um why did we stop it? Is this not a karaoke night for Beyoncé songs, Mike? What the hell? I guess I can give you guys some uh some slides, right? It's been a long day. It's been a long 2 days. Yesterday was very heavy, full of a lot of information. I'm going to take it easy on you guys. Um and we've got some things to talk about. Um we are talking about AI, no surprise. Um but in a little different way than some of the main conversations

way than some of the main conversations that we've had. Um as Garrett mentioned, this is my first conference talk. So, I'm very excited to be here. &gt;&gt; [cheering] &gt;&gt; Thank you. Thank you very much. Um as you guys know, you guys see a lot of Mike. You see Mike everywhere. He travels the world. He is iPullRank, but they challenged the team a little bit more this year and invited a lot more of us to be a part of the conversation. So, today you guys get me. Yay. &gt;&gt; [cheering] [applause] &gt;&gt; So, you know, you are getting to see the

&gt;&gt; So, you know, you are getting to see the human side of iPullRank, the folks that talk to our clients on a weekly basis, um and the people who are doing the work. We are doing the strategy, responding to the new requirements that we have in our industry, and keeping up with all these changes. Um but before I get started, I wanted to shout out to my family who might be watching this recording and not knowing what the heck is going on. Um to them, I kind of say, in the easiest way possible, I help brands figure out what to put on the website so

figure out what to put on the website so they show up on Google. That's as far as they'll That's That's as far as they'll understand. But to you guys, I develop data-driven strat content strategies for brands to gain visibility in traditional search engines and large language models with KPIs to increase ROI while educating cross-functional stakeholders on the best practices in passage level optimization and the benefits of multimodal content initiatives. Thank you. &gt;&gt; [cheering] [applause]

&gt;&gt; Any Fit My Ride fans out there? Woo, millennials, yay! &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; All right. So, today we're here to talk about robots. And I have to tell you guys robots, I love these guys. They're the best guys we've got. They're I'm a huge fan. Robots. That's as far as my Trump impression goes, but I mean, look at this little emo [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] here. Um, this was This was me in high school. I was drawing robots on everything. I know that shoe was kind of out of focus. that that shoe was kind of out of focus. It was probably like the iPhone

It was probably like the iPhone 7, I don't know. Um, I was drawing robots on things like my shoes and my walls. I was wearing robot t-shirts from Hot Topic, and I was a fan of all things dystopian sci-fi. Um, I read 1984 and Brave New World in high school, and I made that my personality. Um but I am first and foremost a writer. Um, I graduated my high school classes valedictorian, and I made the highest score on our graduation writing test.

score on our graduation writing test. Then I went on to become an English major at Georgia State University, where I had a concentration in creative writing. Um, and the goal was to write a novel one day. I wanted I dreamed I dreamt of being a writer. Um, but as you guys in this audience might know, dreams don't always pay the bills. So, I had to get a big girl job. Um, and then I started my career as an English teacher. I taught high school when I was fresh out of college, meaning I was more of like a camp

meaning I was more of like a camp counselor teacher than like a person who was strict to the curriculum. So, it didn't last long and I made a pivot to a new industry. Um and what do I do with my English degree other than teach? Like many post-grad millennial English majors, I wrote blogs. Yay! Um and thus started my career, my 10-year career in SEO and digital marketing. Um So, yeah. I am first and foremost a writer and I enjoy the process of writing. I enjoy the process of

writing. I enjoy the process of storytelling, doing the work. Um I wrote I I spent these 10 years in SEO and digital marketing learning how to write articles by hand. I learned how to edit articles by hand. I gathered tens of thousands of dollars of student loan debt all on my own. And as I wrote this script, I used em dashes all on my own. Yes. &gt;&gt; [cheering] &gt;&gt; Got to hold on to the em dash. Um so, I can imagine you can imagine my hesitance

can imagine you can imagine my hesitance and my chagrin when my boss and CEO of iPullRank, Mr. Michael King, said that we are going to be an AI-first agency. Don't fire me, Mike. I love this job. This is my best job I've ever had. I love this team. It's going to be great. But, there was some there were some hesitations there. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; I'll give it a second. I used AI to create this. Yay! &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; All right. So, the the conversation today is about our expertise, right? Like, if we're thinking about these AI

Like, if we're thinking about these AI mandates and being required to use these tools at our disposal, what does that do to the 5 to 10 to 15 to 20 years of expertise that we've been building? Are we going to lose these skills? Are we going to lose our creative processes? Um and me as a writer, as a creative mind, one of the first things I thought was am I going to have to learn how to code or be like a master prompt builder? Am I going to lose my ability to write great content? Um I'm also a mother. I have

content? Um I'm also a mother. I have two sons that are 15 and 6. Um especially that 15-year-old, he is getting into the mindset of taking the easy way out, right? So, with me setting an example for him and teaching him like it is worth it to use your mind versus taking the easy way out, how can I say that if I'm using these easy tools to just click a button and it's done? So, there's a lot of duality that's happening in my mind right now being a professional in this world, knowing I

professional in this world, knowing I have to keep up with these requirements. There has to be a balance, right? So, I asked our community. I conducted a survey to see how we're truly feeling about these AI mandates, how teams are approaching these new AI tools, and how we actually feel. Today is about feelings. So, calling back to Britain's talk, there's a lot of fud that we're going to talk about today, and hopefully some things that can kind of take us out of this fud, out of this anxiety, and move forward. Since we can't really fight these tools, we can't

can't really fight these tools, we can't really say no, I'm not going to use them. They're here, they're valuable. What do we do after that? So, who took my survey? It was a pretty small survey. It is still open. So, after this talk, I can definitely share this with you guys so that you guys can also be a part of it um because essentially the goal is to create some type of data journalism article with all of these findings, publish it on the I Pull Rank blog, and really talk about what we can do with this uh these overall feelings. So, 129 people responded to the survey.

So, 129 people responded to the survey. Um it was a mixture of a lot of different positions and roles in the in the SEO and digital marketing industry. Um so, things people like from leadership, CEOs, executives, client services, we've got engineers, strategists, analysts that took the survey. And the majority of folks had 10 plus years of experience in this industry, about 48.8% of the folks that I talked to. 32 30.2% people with 5 to 9 years of experience. So, people who this talk is really for,

So, people who this talk is really for, you guys who have been doing this work for a long time. And we're going to talk about how those folks feel about AI tools. So, the first question was, has your company mandated using AI tools? Have you actually been required to use these tools for your everyday work? And out of those 129 respondents, 97% or 97 people said yes, that they have 97 97 people said yes, that they have those mandates. And out of those 97, about

of people said, yes, I've got these mandates and I've already started using these tools. However, there's that 27.3% that says, yes, we've been asked to use these tools, but there's no clear how. I don't know what the hell I'm doing with these tools. I just, you know, use them, right? So, there's clearly a conversation that we need to have here about how can we set up our team to be the most successful? What are the expectations that we have for these teammates who are being asked or challenged to do their jobs in a new

challenged to do their jobs in a new way? So, clearly there's some things to talk about. Overall response to AI tools. I asked you like if you have these mandates, what are your feelings towards it? And a whopping 56.6% said that they're feeling curiosity and intrigue, right? Like we are interested in what's going on. So, I'm open to trying to figure out how to use these tools. But what I want to call your attention to is that there is about that 15.7% of people who either responded in

of people who either responded in hesitance and fear or an overall aversion to using these tools, right? Aversion and refusal meaning I don't want to do it. And if you have an AI mandate and you have people on your team who are completely against it, it's up to leadership to really unpack where that comes from and do something about it. Because of that then, you know, we'd be talking about employee retention, loss of skills, or just overall chaos on your team, to say the least.

team, to say the least. So, what are those causes of concern? That was the next question. If you do have fears in approaching AI tools in the workplace, what is causing that fear? And the top three skill degradation or atrophy. I don't want to lose the skills that I've worked hard to gain. I don't want AI to do the easy things and then I lose all those things that I was doing at my entry-level position. The next one that I don't think anybody talked about today or will talk about

talked about today or will talk about this week, personal values, the ethics of AI usage. Are we destroying our planet? Maybe, but we're not talking about that. But it's worth it to bring up those conversations, right? Like, what are we going to do if this is our reality? And then the last one, the last or the third highest concern is a pressure to deliver work faster. There's been a lot of conversations about use these AI tools and you can do two things in twice the time or double your team. You know, like

time or double your team. You know, like all those things are a concern for the people who are doing the work. If I'm supposed to be two times faster, how do I get there? If I'm supposed to do more work, what happens? Or how do I reach that faster output? So, things that are really important for leadership to see and understand about your team. Of course, this is a small survey, 129 people between my co-workers, folks at LinkedIn, um some folks from like the Women in Tech SEO

folks from like the Women in Tech SEO group that responded as well. So, I encourage leaders to do something like this with your team because of course, it's going to be different based on the folks that you work with and it's important to really understand and have that empathy of what the people on the front line are truly feeling. And then we take a look at the results by role, right? I asked client services folks, I asked writers how they're feeling, it analysts and engineers and strategists how they're feeling. Of course, overall, there was a lot of

course, overall, there was a lot of curiosity across the roles, but if you take a look at the engineer column or that row for the engineer, that that row for the engineer, strategist, and analyst, that's where a lot of the aversion and refusal pops up. If you have engineers and analysts and strategists on your team who don't want to use these tools, that's really important to be able to understand and to do something about cuz essentially, yeah, the CEO, the leaders can really be all for it, but the people who are on the front lines, doing the production, working with clients, you

production, working with clients, you have to have their buy-in, too, in order for this to be the most successful production. So, it's very interesting, very interesting uh takeaway there. Harvard Business Review did an article on this, like what is threatening workers about AI use and it comes down to three psychological needs. Depending on how AI tools or gen AI either satisfies or frustrates three psychological needs, that can tell you a lot about how these people are responding to AI in the workplace.

responding to AI in the workplace. Competence, that's that skill atrophy that we talked about. Am I going to feel like I am effective and capable? Like I'm still doing the things that I know that I'm good at? Or or I just having a robot do it for me now? Autonomy. Am I in control of what I do at work? Or do I have to pass certain things on that I used to enjoy doing? And then relatedness. There's a lot of brainstorming ideation that can happen at the AI tool stage,

that can happen at the AI tool stage, but a lot of that stuff from our us creative folks would happen collaboratively. We would have a meeting, we would brainstorm, we would talk about things. But now if the AI can create the ideas for you, some people might be missing out on those social aspects of work that they enjoyed. So it's really important to consider and make decisions about what do we actually use AI for? And then there's the money part of it. You may be creating an access gap that you didn't notice.

you didn't notice. I won't ask you guys this to raise your hands, but just think about it. Are you paying for your own premium versions of these tools? Has your boss asked you to pay for your own premium versions of these tools? Or are you using the free version because you don't want to invest in the premium version of the tools? If leadership is asking your team to utilize these tools and asking you to self-fund it, that creates a gap between the high-income workers that might be able to buy two or

workers that might be able to buy two or three or four different versions of these premium tools, whereas the folks who are closer to the front line won't have that same access for tools. So if we're asking our teams to utilize these AI tools, of course, the main point is to create that workplace equity, to make sure that it is coming from leadership that we all have access to the same tools, we all have access to the same learning, so it levels the playing field, and of course, it's fair.

&gt;&gt; All right, so back to the survey. 45.3% of the people that I talked to said that they would consider a career pivot to a completely different industry if their fears around GenAI tools continue. That's almost 50%. And of course, I'll give you I'll give you the what the actual answers were. It's either you might consider a pivot if the opportunity presented itself, or you would strongly consider moving. So, people who might have worked in the SEO and digital marketing industry for

SEO and digital marketing industry for 10 years are saying I'm out of here. I'm going to go paint if I have to continue using these AI tools without the clarity that I need, right? So, again, it's important to consider like if your people are feeling anxious, concerned, fear you have to approach it. I love talking about feelings. I'm a mom, sorry. So, what do we do about this? What do we do if we know that this is a concern for a lot of folks? We talked a lot about how AI search is

We talked a lot about how AI search is impacting consumers, right? Like that's our jobs. But these same forces that are impacting consumers are reshaping us as professionals. How do we approach this knowing that we could also use these tools? We built our careers on knowing things, and now that knowing is commoditized. And of course, we know that AI hallucinates. Um hallucination rates can be anywhere between 1.8% all the way up to 7%

between 1.8% all the way up to 7% depending on the platform that you use. So, it's important to know the strengths and weaknesses of each of these GenAI platforms, and knowing that there might be one to use for a specific task over the other. And of course, AI always needs your human review. This is a screenshot from me working in Claude trying to build a keyword portfolio for one of our clients. And Claude knows that my clients love ROI. Any recommendation that you give me, it has to be backed by the return. They

has to be backed by the return. They have to know what they're going to get out of it. But if you look at this nice little purple highlight, Claude told me that out of these 1,400 keywords, my client could get $2 million in search volume. If I would have copied and pasted that into a deck, and my client's like, "Cool, so we're going to get $2 million off of these keywords that you're targeting. That's cool." If I had not caught that, that would have been a very difficult conversation from both the client and probably Mike and Britain and Fajr and everybody would have been like, "What the hell is that? That's not real."

That's not real." Right? We can't just let the AI do the job for us. We can't just copy and paste. The human review is crucial. And so that's where I use my skills as an English major, as an editor, to read the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Read it, put close eyes to it, and edit it to make it right. I also talked to our writers. We are experimenting with how we're using our AI tools for fact-checking articles. And what you're seeing here is

articles. And what you're seeing here is that we're playing around with whether Claude or ChatGPT is doing a better job at this fact-checking. And so we gave the same prompts to both Claude and ChatGPT saying, "Take a look at this article, fact-check it for me, and then vice versa." From what Claude fact-checked, "ChatGPT, take a look at this. What did Claude miss?" And as you can see, there's a comparison where sometimes Claude will find things that ChatGPT misses, and sometimes ChatGPT will miss things that

sometimes ChatGPT will miss things that Claude misses. And again, this is going to be my echo, the human eye is always necessary. If you're using AI for content creation, it's crucial to know how to do that, right? AI tools are going to work the best when it comes to giving them guardrails. They work best off of brand style guides, strategic context, client goals. All those things are crucial to build into that process, right? Guardrails are going to be the difference between a usable output and a

difference between a usable output and a glorified first draft. And then of course we talk about time savings, right? How much time am I going to save by using AI tools? But what we found here, at least from the content perspective, is that sure we'll save time, we have a thing, we have a draft, but the time doesn't just disappear. We're not doing cartwheels or taking a walk in the park after we create an AI-generated piece of content. That time moves over to the quality layer, right? We're spending a lot of time doing that review, doing reiteration, quality

review, doing reiteration, quality control, fact-checking. When it comes to content, right? We know that content is supposed to be the most valuable, the most accurate, the most correct. So we're double-checking links, we're checking the things that these tools are citing as sources, and very often we find that link doesn't actually exist. You click it, it says that this is a source, but it doesn't go anywhere, right? So we can't skip that layer of really diving into the content, making sure that it is correct, because

making sure that it is correct, because at that point it becomes a liability if we're creating content that is not factual. And then the fun question, where does AI belong in creative production? Creative professionals should be [snorts] protected and sacred. Def- Yeah? Any graphic designers, videographers, photographers out there? Right. Okay, so the idea here is, yes, use gen AI for the ideation process, the

use gen AI for the ideation process, the discovery. Help me come up with an idea. Help me see a mock-up. But you can't use that mock-up as a client asset. Essentially, it's like taking a look at a Pinterest board and then pasting it onto a client strategy and saying, "Here's your thing." You can't sell a mood board. You can't copyright a mood board. But, what you can do is trust the professionals who have years of experience doing the thing. They know the right features, the right applications, the right tools to use. They should be protected, right? They know

know the best tools to use. They have that intellect, the client strategic context to do the job well. So, what I'm saying is we have to be the best human in the loop. Talked a lot about human in the loop. It's definitely like a phrase that we're saying now. Human in the loop. Human in the loop. Um but, the idea here is that we want to take human in the loop from being a defensive posture to a position of power. We are in control. We can choose whether or not to use these tools. We don't have to use them. But, we can

don't have to use them. But, we can coach them or teach the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] out of everything. There we go. Um to to to to get the job done. And so, of course, you guys know the it's a process, right? You can't just plop in a prompt, copy and paste the thing. It's reiterative. You have to give it the context, you have to give it the coaching, the feedback, the data that you need in order to prompt, feedback, iterate, review, and do it all over again. Always pressure test things. Is this client approved? Is this goal-aligned?

client approved? Is this goal-aligned? Is the intent correct, right? Does this fit my client's actual situation or is it just what Claude thinks is right based on whatever it's basing its stuff off of, right? Here's another meme for you. Any uh I'll make up a reference. I have heard that there is a tool where folks are taking their AI-generated content and putting it into a second AI tool to make that content sound less AI-generated.

AI-generated. You can read. You can edit. That's your part to make it more humanified, right? Do the editing part yourself. And then there's this concept of ikigai. It is a Japanese phrase that really translates to your purpose of being, right? It's the intersection of things that you love doing, things that you're good at, things that you can get paid for, and things that the world needs, right? This is where I try my best to make room for

is where I try my best to make room for the things that I really enjoy doing, the things that affirm my skills. That's the sweet spot for if you do have time savings, here's what you should definitely spend your time for. Those things that only you can do. That's where you affirm yourself. That's where you exercise your skills and strengthen them to make sure that they don't just disappear. Any project managers in the house? No. Okay, cool. I love project management. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Um but leaders can definitely use this

&gt;&gt; Um but leaders can definitely use this tool, too, right? The whole idea here is that we don't have to automate everything, but if we're tracking our time and trying to figure out what does the manual process look like, how does this process look like after the automation or skill, and you can really make some smart decisions about what your team should actually be using AI for. So, if it saved you time, wonderful. Now, you can do that thing, save some time. But, if you don't see too much of a difference between the before and after, maybe that means that you are already efficient doing the job the way that you do it, and then you can

that you do it, and then you can reiterate to make it save you time, or you can just automate something else, right? So, I'm not a math person, but Claude helps me create this formula. Yay. Um and this is going to be in a spreadsheet that will be attached to my presentation, and it's essentially a formula to help you guys calculate that net time saved, break even numbers to really see if the before and after of your automation really does save you time. So, it looks a little something like this. That yellow is terrible.

like this. That yellow is terrible. Okay, but the idea here is you've got a column for each of the tasks that you might be automating or creating a skill for, and then you have the manual time it took you historically, and then you can calculate how much time it takes after the automation is created. And then, of course, you also need to be factoring in the time it takes to set up the skill, how to teach your gen AI to do this thing cuz of course that is time towards the task, essentially. Um but once you do that set up time, ideally, the automation should

up time, ideally, the automation should be a pretty quick thing to go through. And so, with this uh little spreadsheet cuz I love spreadsheets, um you'll be able to, you know, just pull in that formula and then the last couple rows will populate that number for you. And this can be something that you either as leadership use or things that departments can show to their leadership team to say, "Look at this time that we've saved. Look at this um these new processes that we've built into our task and how we are going to be more efficient. And here's what we're going to use with that time saved."

Okay. So, to the framework, our takeaways cuz I know that we are hungry for dinner, we're hungry for drinks, all that fun stuff. Uh my takeaway is to just be human. And as you can tell, human stands for something. Humanize the output. Read the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] it spits out to you. Never copy and paste something directly from a gen AI. That's a That's a rookie move. We don't want to do that. The whole goal is to always use your human judgment, right? Apply your expertise.

judgment, right? Apply your expertise. Apply your strategic knowledge in the content the context that you have about your client first before moving forward with anything. Uncover your time wins. You don't have to automate everything. Build the skills for the things that can be mundane or repeatable, and then determine how much time it can save you, right? The whole idea is to not just automate anything, but automate intentionally, not reflexively. Figure out what actually saves you time power. And then once you understand how much

And then once you understand how much time you saved, saves you brain power. Why did I say that? That's cool. Time power is also a thing, right? Make space for what matters, right? Once you know what time you might have saved, have an understanding about the work that means the most to you and do that work. Prioritize the things that only you can do, the things that make you feel special, the things that you enjoy doing. You still have permission to do what you love to do. And then of course, the reason why we're here, teach others, right? If you're

here, teach others, right? If you're learning a new thing and you've discovered this wonderful automation or skill, why would you keep it to yourself, right? I think that's the whole idea why we're here is that we are all open to sharing resources, open to teaching others. The I pull rank team is very good at sharing and educating and teaching. There's no egos among the team. I've learned a lot in just the year and a half that I've been here. And so it's great. Like that's kind of just like the nature of the beast right now where all these new tools are popping up

all these new tools are popping up daily. So it kind of levels the playing field. No one's really an expert at this right now, but we can definitely support and teach each other on the way. And last, never stop evolving. The idea here is that these AI tools aren't really going anywhere. We can't truly fight it, but we do kind of have to lean in and make sure that we are evolving. We're playing around. We're exploring. We're keeping an open mind. Your boss hired you for your EEAT.

Your boss hired you for your EEAT. You're here for a reason, right? You're not just a cog in the machine. You do have expertise that should be celebrated. However, stubbornness and anxiety, that flood, that staying stuck, all those things will probably make you left behind in this industry, especially because we are moving so fast into what's next. And before I close, I'm going to take it back to the survey that I took. This is taking a look at each role and how much they're using AI tools.

how much they're using AI tools. Of course, there are the select few that think that they're an expert already in AI tools. It's kind of like it concentrated around the engineers and the CEOs, executive level folks. But across all these different roles, the majority of how much are you using AI tools, it's I'm using the tools and learning something new every day. Which means we are all novices or at least like intermediate, right? The whole idea is of course that learning process. So, lean on your community,

process. So, lean on your community, lean on the folks on your team, teach something. Leaders, listen to people's feelings. Talk about feelings. Have a Kumbaya circle if you need to. Um but the idea here is that you're still the smartest in the room, right? If you're here, you're definitely the smartest in your respective rooms when you go back home because you decided to spend the week with I full rank. We're glad that you're here. Um but Yeah. Woohoo. I full rank. Um you have the degree. The robot does not,

you have the degree. The robot does not, right? AI can definitely accelerate your work, but it should never replace your human judgment. You are not behind. You are not obsolete. You are the ever powerful edit. And that's my time. &gt;&gt; [cheering] [applause] &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; [applause] &gt;&gt; Okay, so for the veteran who's done all these talk No, that was her first talk, guys. &gt;&gt; [cheering and applause]

&gt;&gt; That was her first talk. That was nuts. Okay, I'm going to make you clap again. One more time for Angela Clark, everybody. &gt;&gt; [cheering] [applause] &gt;&gt; Day two in the books. I can't believe it's psychology was so much fun. I had so much fun with all these talks.
